To draw a square we’d like to do the same thing four times — move the turtle, and turn. We previously used 8 lines to
have alex draw the four sides of a square. This does exactly the same, but using just three lines:

  for i in [0,1,2,3]:
  alex.forward(50)
  alex.left(90)
  
Some observations:
• While “saving some lines of code” might be convenient, it is not the big deal here. What is much more important
is that we’ve found a “repeating pattern” of statements, and reorganized our program to repeat the pattern. Find-
ing the chunks and somehow getting our programs arranged around those chunks is a vital skill in computational
thinking.
• The values [0,1,2,3] were provided to make the loop body execute 4 times. We could have used any four values,
but these are the conventional ones to use. In fact, they are so popular that Python gives us special built-in
range objects:

for i in range(4):   #Executes the body with i = 0, then 1, then 2, then 3

for x in range(10):  #Sets x to each of ... [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]

• Since we do not need or use the variable i in this case, we could replace it with _, although this is not important
for the program flow, it is good style.

• Computer scientists like to count from 0!

• range can deliver a sequence of values to the loop variable in the for loop. They start at 0, and in these cases
do not include the 4 or the 10.

• Our little trick earlier to make sure that alex did the final turn to complete 360 degrees has paid off: if we had
not done that, then we would not have been able to use a loop for the fourth side of the square. It would have
become a “special case”, different from the other sides. When possible, we’d much prefer to make our code fit
a general pattern, rather than have to create a special case.

So to repeat something four times, a good Python programmer would do this:

So to repeat something four times, a good Python programmer would do this:

for _ in range(4):
  alex.forward(50)
  alex.left(90)

By now you should be able to see how to change our previous program so that tess can also use a for loop to draw
her equilateral triangle.

But now, what would happen if we made this change?

for color in ["yellow", "red", "purple", "blue"]:
  alex.color(color)
  alex.forward(50)
  alex.left(90)
A variable can also be assigned a value that is a list. So lists can also be used in more general situations, not only in
the for loop. The code above could be rewritten like this:

# Assign a list to a variable
colors = ["yellow", "red", "purple", "blue"]
for color in colors:
  alex.color(color)
  alex.forward(50)
  alex.left(90)

• Notice the difference between the method alex.color, which is “part of” the instance alex, and the variable
color, which is “part of” the main body of your program.
